[Educational Notes] Start adding educational notes for data-race safety. (#79509)
swiftlang/swift: userdocs/diagnostics/mutable-global-variable.md

# Unsafe mutable global and static variables

Concurrency checking prohibits mutable global and static variables that are `nonisolated` because they can be accessed from arbitrary concurrency domains at once and lead to data races.

For example:

```swift
struct Constants {
  static var value = 10
}
```

Building this code with complete concurrency checking will point out the unsafe static variable:

```
| struct Constants {
|   static var value = 10
|              |- error: static property 'value' is not concurrency-safe because it is nonisolated global shared mutable state
|              |- note: convert 'value' to a 'let' constant to make 'Sendable' shared state immutable
|              |- note: add '@MainActor' to make static property 'value' part of global actor 'MainActor'
|              `- note: disable concurrency-safety checks if accesses are protected by an external synchronization mechanism
```

> If the type of the variable conforms to `Sendable` and the value is never changed, the most common fix is to change the `var` to a `let` to make the state immutable. Immutable state is safe to access concurrently!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the type of the variable conforms to `Sendable` and the value is never changed, a common fix is to change the `var` to a `let` to make the state immutable. Immutable state is safe to access concurrently!
```

> If you carefully access the global variable in a way that cannot cause data races, such as by wrapping all accesses in an external synchronization mechanism like a lock or a dispatch queue, you can apply `nonisolated(unsafe)` to opt out of concurrency checking:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you carefully manage the access to the global variable in a way that cannot cause data races, such as by wrapping all accesses in an external synchronization mechanism like a lock or a dispatch queue, you can apply `nonisolated(unsafe)` to opt out of concurrency checking:
```

```swift
  nonisolated(unsafe) static var value = 10
```

Now consider a static variable with a type that does not conform to `Sendable`:

```swift
class MyModel {
  static let shared = MyModel()

  // mutable state
}
```

> This code is also diagnosed under complete concurrency checking. Even though the `shared` variable is a `let` constant, the `MyModel` type is not `Sendable`, so it could have mutable stored properties. The most common fix in this case is to isolate the variable to the main actor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code is also diagnosed under complete concurrency checking. Even though the `shared` variable is a `let` constant, the `MyModel` type is not `Sendable`, so it could have mutable stored properties. A common fix in this case is to isolate the variable to the main actor:
```

```swift
class MyModel {
  @MainActor
  static let shared = MyModel() 
}
```

> Alternatively, you can isolate the `MyModel` class itself to the main actor, which will also make the type `Sendable` because the main actor will protect access to all mutable state:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, isolate the `MyModel` class to the main actor, which will also make the type `Sendable` because the main actor isolation protects access to all mutable state:
```
